# Repository Overview
Some notes about the AlphaZ repo.
Specifically, the CSU AlphaZ (not the Inria AlphaZ).

## How the Compile Script Commands Exist

At the highest level, the commands are specified
in the package `edu.csu.melange.alphaz.commands`.
This appears to be an Eclipse EMF package.
The commands themselves are described in
the file `src/model/alphazMDECommands.commandif`.
This is a big XML file, and it's much easier to look at
through the Eclipse IDE (it has a nice tree-style viewer for it).

Each command is given a name, description, and a list of inputs.
There are optional overloads to the commands as well.
It looks like this can either be to add new sets of inputs
(called "specialized overloading"),
or to completely change them (called "overloading").

At a slightly higher level, the files in that package's
`src/metamodel/` folder describe the general format
for how commands are described.
Additionally, the files in that package's
`src/template/` and `src/workflow` describe how
the `alphazMDECommands.commandif` file is used to generate
the Java files for actually implementing the classes.

The `alphazMDECommands.commandif` file is used to automatically
generate a bunch of other code files.
One of these sets of files is the package
`edu.csu.melange.alphaz.commands.scripts.mde`.
In this package, the `src-gen/edu.csu.melange.alphaz.commands.scripts`
folder contains one Java file per command.
These class in each file contains all of the applicable constructors,
which seem to just call a static function in another file (more on this later).
They also seem to have empty `compute()` methods,
and I have no clue what that's for.

The second set of files which are autogenerated
are in the package `edu.csu.melange.alphaz.mde`.
Inside this package's `src-gen/alphaz.mde` and `src-gen/alphaz.mde.transformation`
folders are a handful of files.
Each file in the `src-gen/alphaz.mde` folder contains one of the categories
listed in the `alphazMDECommands.commandif` file.
However, some of the commands in the "Transformation" category
are split between the `src-gen/alphaz.mde/Transformation.java` file
and the files in the `src-gen/alphaz.mde.transformation/` folder.
These files sometimes contain implementations themselves,
but often just do some simple data manipulation then
hand off the real work to a different file.
A lot of these other files are found in the packages
`org.polymodel.polyhedralIR` and `org.polymodel.polyhedralIR.codegen`.
